Although the advent of
both value-added and
disruptive technology in
the residential space involves
both the aggregation,
disaggregation,
democratization of data.
Certainly, more than residential,
the commercial sector has been
historically and
today data-driven.
For example, managing
commercial properties
is often extremely
complex and that ranges
from sourcing deals to
doing due diligence,
to managing property really
requiring copious
amounts of data and
transaction details that are
challenging to maintain and
to make useful in the aggregate.
It's no surprise then that
a number of CRE Tech startups
are focusing on this space
and increasing efficiency,
optimizing, and so on,
those from other industries.
For example, management
information systems in
the form of firms like Workframe.
Protocols are portals
or platforms for
commercial tenants to gain
information and to access
contracts and to
provide data and share
data back and forth with
commercial real estate managers.
Transaction data aggregate
are all examples of what's
going on in the commercial
real estate space.
Here's an example.
WeSmartPark, that is
an Airbnb style firm
for garage parking spaces.
Again, aggregating
data, redirecting data,
providing for those
who are purchasing.
Here's another one, Bowery.
This is automating
appraisal processes in
the commercial real estate space
that has been very,
let's say, old industry,
the paper-based for many years.
Cushman & Wakefield,
the large commercial broker
is partnered with Bowery and
the firm although it's
only four years old,
has recently raised
$12 million in
a Series A from a number of
top venture capitalists.